so you've decided to start a YouTube
channel I'm gonna make a video giving
you a few words of advice about why you
might or might not want to start a
YouTube channel really about the
strategic considerations you should have
in what kind of videos you make if you
aspire to one day have an audience of
say 1000 people who tuned in regularly
to hear what you have to say I have
there are all kinds of people have
respected in my life
university professors authors artists
intellectuals all kinds of creative
people and if they came on the internet
and gave a lecture about political
philosophy especially if it's a book
review about a book nobody's ever heard
of they could never get a thousand
people to show up and hear that lecture
they could never get a thousand people
to watch that video I have one old
friend who's a university professor
Jenny Jenny if you're watching this I
dare you you try to make a video about
philosophy or political philosophy and
try to get a thousand views it's not
that easy okay but there's some advice I
can give you as someone who's a medium
sized broadcaster in a very small
category in a very small pond and you
know again truth be told just today I
was talking to two different channels
talking to Jay costley it was talking a
vegan mojo guys who've worked very hard
and you still get 200 viewers on a video
I'm always talking to mod vegan a lot of
respect for her content she worked so
hard she maybe gets 200 or 300 viewers
on a video so again having the audio
having a regular audience the size of my
audience it is in a way an
accomplishment and there are some kind
of strategic considerations for you for
you to consider one first off the bat if
you want to talk about something
meaningful whatever it is it may not be
politics it may not be philosophy it may
not be veganism ecology or animal rights
you have to answer questions that your
audience is already asking and they can
be asking those questions for any reason
so you know for me in this little
demi-monde of aspiring vegan activists
on the internet if there is a scandal if
there is a particular question in the
headlines and the news that people are
talking about I can choose to take that
scandal as an opportunity to talk about
any political issue any philosophical
issue any strategic issue but then
people will come and watch that channel
because they were already thinking about
that that they were already asking
themselves that question so right now a
relatively small news story you know the
leader of one vegan group called direct
action everywhere he is actually facing
legal charges he's facing legal
consequences because he and some other
vegans broke into a factory farm broke
into a farm racing turkeys and they
squirt unquote liberated some of the
turkeys now you don't have to be a
genius to figure out it doesn't matter
if you used the word Liberator or not
that's theft you can talk about
liberating cows you're still a cattle
wrestler you know you're still stealing
cows so they're very obviously and they
videotaped themselves doing this and
share the videotape on the Internet
well guess what that's breaking and
entering and theft and it could be the
end of his career so he can activists
and we can joke around about it but Real
Talk actions have consequences okay so a
controversy like that I can come on
camera and if other people know about it
they've read about at the newspaper
they've read they're thinking about it
because it's a big issue within veganism
that can be an opportunity for me to
talk about any philosophical or
political perspective I have to share I
mean you could literally take a
controversy like that and say look you
know what's really important about this
is something I learned when I was
studying Aristotle in university when I
was studying Plato and Socrates you name
it you can you can take that in any
direction you can make it as deep and
meaningful and philosophical as you want
to you can take it in an historical
direction you can talk about events from
history 500 years ago and they're
somehow relevant to and important to
this question of obeying the law
you're engaged in political activism or
democracy and due process and respect
for the rule of law whatever the reason
is um and you could also take it in a
deeply personal direction you could say
to people look this is a controversy
within veganism today I'm gonna tell you
about some that happened to me when I
was in high school I'm gonna tell you
what sign out of me and university and
this changed the way I view activism or
the way I view animal rights or the way
I view turkeys on a farm whatever it is
but if you are trying to reach a larger
audience
fundamentally you cannot just come on
camera and make videos answering your
own questions speaking to your own
interests you have to be answering
questions that the audience is already
asking and some people do that in a
really shallow and catty way and some
people accuse me of doing it in a show
and kind of way so there's always
controversy with someone like a natural
vegan I just had a video a few days ago
really talking about the philosophy of
Peter Singer and the implications the
long-term implications of the popularity
of Peter Singer and utilitarianism for
veganism and social movement okay if I
had just made that video if I had made a
book review of Peter Singer one of his
books on animal rights activism
political philosophy it would have
reached a very small number of people
and even the people it did reach because
I have regular viewers they'd start the
video saying huh why why do I want to
hear about this what does this have to
do with my life even if they've already
vegan even if they already know me you
have to overcome a kind of obstacle
because they're not already asking
themselves that question but there was a
controversy with unnatural vegan making
excuses for another youtuber Kristina
who's been wearing leather a natural
vegan said that she thinks wearing
leather shoes is not such a big deal and
I did not respond in a shallow and Cadi
way I didn't come on and say hey you're
an idiot for making excuses of this I
came on and said look the real issue
here the real philosophical political
issue is the legacy of Peter Singer the
legacy of utilitarianism within veganism
this is where I want to take it so I did
talk about the controversy of the day
talked about the politics of the moment
but I'm also talking about the politics
of the millennium I'm talking about
issues that go back decades and that
matter for centuries but fundamentally
people started watching that video
because they were already interested in
hearing to answer that question they're
already interested nearing what is the
deal with unnatural vegan and her
welfarist attitudes for her excuses for
people drinking milk and people eating
chicken eggs and in this case people
wearing leather what is they're already
asking themselves that question in some
sense and when they come to my channel
they're not getting the answer they
expect but they're getting an
interesting and provocative answer to a
question they're already asking some
they're already engaged with so that's
that's the basic way you have to
approach making youtube videos there
already has to be something that raises
the stakes for your viewers that creates
their their interest and of course I say
this partly because I'm tempted myself
not to do this I'm tempted to just pick
up a book of philosophy and talk about
that book of philosophy whether that's a
book review or a critique I'm tempted to
just take an issue in the history of
political science political thought and
say hey on this video I'm gonna talk
about this profound issue uh but the
problem is again and I really appreciate
the people who do show up when I give a
book review if I do a book review why am
i doing the book review because I am
interested in the book because the book
matters because the book is important in
some abstract sense for YouTube that's
not good enough
I can't be in the position of explaining
to my audience why this book is
important why it's interesting why this
philosophical issue is important or why
it's interesting why this political
issue is important in why it's
interesting my audience has to come to
that video already knowing why this is
important or interesting they have to be
already asking that question okay that's
the challenge you have as a small
youtuber making specialized content
that's meaningful
but content that will
an audience and content where your
audience will find you so again I'm not
perfect I just did this book review a
few days ago I'm gonna do another book
review a few days from now I've been
reading some I I think actually there's
a lot of and and for me the tension
there is I also want to make videos that
will be important for my own daughter to
see one day in the future I have a
daughter that's three years old she's
not reading political philosophy right
now maybe one day and I want to make
videos that in a sense tell my daughter
Who I am and that maybe would be
interesting or useful for her and
shaping her view of the world when she's
thinking about these issues herself in
the future okay but that's a bias if
what I cared about was reaching a huge
audience obviously you know I would make
more videos just about Game of Thrones
just about A Song of Ice and Fire
my first video on a song of ice and fire
reached 10,000 viewers in only a couple
of days that a song about fire is a
series of fictional books obviously I
could have jumped on that built that
audience focused all my energy on a much
more profitable category a much bigger
pond of viewers in the internet than
talking about vegan politics or
political philosopher anything else okay
this brings me this is a natural segue
to my next topic if you look at what is
already on the internet it's very it's
very deceptive it's easy to see gaps in
the content that's already being created
the size of the gap does not correspond
in any way to the size of the audience
so you know give an example when I first
came on YouTube I did not want this
channel to be about veganism I didn't
want that to be the primary thing I
talked about or the only thing I talked
about it still is it channels about me
it's about my life veganism as a big
part of my life but I was just starting
a new university degree I already have
one degree in political science I was
starting a new universe degree in Asian
Studies basically politics of Asia I
thought I'd have a lot of videos here
about the politics of Asia I thought I'd
have other people coming on my channel
and coming on my podcast and talking to
me about politics in Asia now ask you so
real quick globally worldwide are there
more people interested in veganism or
more people interested in the politics
of Asia there are more people interested
in the politics of Asia not ten to one
not a hundred to one but in the thousand
to one there are thousand millions of
people who speak English who want to
watch videos or read newspaper articles
or buy magazines talking about the
politics of Asia if you go to youtube a
lot of people notice you do this search
bar on YouTube search for the word vegan
and then there's a little click down
menu it's a little bit it's a little bit
confusing and it's almost invisible you
can click down and set a menu option to
just search for today now in this
context today means so if you search
vegan and then you click vegan plus
today you get a list of videos with the
word vegan in the title uploaded within
24 hours to YouTube and it's amazing day
after day you're getting hundreds of new
videos being uploaded to YouTube just
about veganism a lot of them are crap a
lot of them are some of them are just
about food diet weight loss not
necessarily crap it is not interesting
to me some of them are just vacation
videos first to the beach whatever
lifestyle videos a few will be political
protests but there are hundreds of
videos already going up every day not
every way every day so if you look at
that strategically you think why would I
start a channel where one the size of
the audience is tiny the total number of
people come in the internet who want to
hear about veganism is tiny and - it's
already crowded there are already so
many people competing with me in some
cases people making exactly the same
video as me like in some cases it's you
know I make a video calling I make a
video title why I became vegan thousands
of people have already made that video
even if I might want to make a video
about the ethics of wearing leather
thousands of people have already made
that video right but this is
counterintuitive now if you go to
youtube and you do the same search for
politics in Asia Asian politics you can
do a bunch of searches of this and then
you add that same criterion politics in
Asia today there is nothing there is
nothing you'll get a couple of channels
in India that are not in English
uploading news clips I used to know one
guy who had a channel it was just one
guy working along this channel doing
some discussion of both of Asia he I
think he was based in Hong Kong it's
empty the field is empty and the market
is huge but let me tell you something
from personal experience again you can't
just look at the number of results you
have to look at the quality of results
if it's people just uploading something
they literally record it off of TV you
know they recorded a clip from CNN you
know this is not this is not original
content YouTube but I promise you I have
really spent a lot of time searching for
that and there's nothing so there's a
huge gap there the size of the gap tells
you nothing about the size of the
audience you can reach and I have
experience making videos about politics
in Asia and not just uploading those
videos to YouTube but even sharing those
videos on discussion forums you know
internet websites that are just for
politics of Asia and the interest is nil
the interest is almost zero where I have
a carefully researched factual
informative video and about current
events about something going on now
that's controversial and interesting and
it's a big deal and influences millions
of people's lives it's a long time ago
on this channel and you reach an
audience of like 50 people and the 50
people aren't even interested and don't
care right so this is completely
counterintuitive we have an
old-fashioned saying in English if you
want something to get done give it to
somebody who's already busy by the same
token you can say if you want to be in a
lively area of YouTube if you want to be
broadcasting and have a really engaged
you've got to move into a segment that's
already crowded and that's true but
veganism veganism is tiny and already
crowded and yet I've had way more
success to argument ISM than I ever
could have had talking about politics of
Asia counterintuitive but true and
that's even true about a Song of Ice and
Fire
also known as Game of Thrones how
hundreds of channels are already talking
about Game of Thrones my first video
ever about Game of Thrones reaches more
than 10,000 viewers and fast if you want
something done give it somebody busy
somebody's already busy if you want a
lot of action on a YouTube channel then
you actually have to move into a
category that's already busy and if you
followed point 1 the first piece of
advice of taking a controversy it's
already going on taking questions people
already asking but giving something
really fresh and original and insightful
whether it's from an historical angle
getting deeper historically or deeper
personally or deeper philosophically I
think you you will reward the attention
of your viewers and you will find an
audience your audience will find you the
people who respect and value that kind
of content that you're creating last
point here there have been a lot of
warnings in this channel and there are a
lot of warnings if you just look around
[Music]
basically about how micro Fame can
destroy your life I I just watched a
video this morning actually of a
youtuber who got extorted an
ex-girlfriend of his from seven years
before an ex-girlfriend from when he was
a teenager found out that he had a
YouTube channel and she had some nude
photographs of him from when they were
together and she was actively extorting
she wanted him to pay a $5,000 or he
would she would post these naked
pictures of her and this kind of thing
and they naked pictures of the the two
of them together you can look at a guy
like the amazing atheist or a Nessie on
there are a lot of car crash stories
about how coming on YouTube most of
these people make no money I make a
trivial amount of money on the Internet
but you can have all the disadvantages
of Fame with none of the advantages
there are people who get fired from
their jobs there are people whose
marriages fall apart or their life falls
apart there are people who get ruined by
this I think in a sense that's the easy
side of it to understand yeah Fame goes
to people's heads even when it's micro
Fame even when it's really tiny and I'd
point out to you like if you think Fame
can't ruin your life when you have only
two hundred fans if you have two hundred
people wanting to talk to you every week
two hundred messages on Twitter email
Facebook all these combined I mean
that's not a big fan base if you have
two hundred people who want your time
and attention who just want to chat with
you in a week you may already feel
famous two hundred people is enough to
make people feel famous and to have
these really strange psychological
impacts on and the other point is even
if you just have two hundred people like
that you know knocking on your door
metaphorically speaking people who want
to chat with you on skype or by phone or
meetup or hook up or whatever remember
in a given week you're gonna be saying
no to 199 of them right you're gonna be
selecting within those 200 people who
gets your time who gets your attention
and that also is very unnatural for most
people most like okay most people you
get a new job at work you look around
your co-workers and you ask yourself who
can I be friends with here who can I
tolerate out of my five coworkers who
can I get along with and you make the
best of it when you were a school kid in
high school you were assigned to a new
chemistry class you sit down there are
30 people in the class you're sitting
next to five of them you look around and
think who can I be friends with now you
have hundreds of people maybe thousands
of people who want to be your friend you
want to get to know you
yeah maybe people who want to sleep with
you maybe people who send you nude
photographs of themselves or whatever
and whether or not you do it consciously
you're choosing to exclude 90% of them
or 99% of them so that alone is a really
distorting elements of micro fame even
if it's just 200 people who are gathered
around you and at all ages that can have
a really strange impact in people's
lives with about 20 years old or 50
years old whether they're teenagers or
in retirement however everything in that
category of considerations I think I
think just watching this video now if
you just sit down and think about it
think about it while you're doing the
laundry you can pretty clearly
anticipate how that's going to influence
you how that's going to be a problem
and in some ways how it's going to be a
positive thing most of us especially
that veganism why are we online in the
first place because we want more friends
in real life we want to be involved in
real political activism we want to have
colleagues we want to know other vegans
so many vegans on the Internet live in a
town or live in a city where they don't
have even one vegan friend so you know
making friends is a huge part of why
we're online to begin with yeah I think
you can sit down now after what I've
already sent you in this video and you
can think through okay if I do this
YouTube channel how is this gonna
influence me how is it gonna be an issue
of my life when it's 200 people when
it's 2,000 people
if it becomes 20,000 people and you can
think through the opposite how am I
gonna feel if it goes up to 2,000 and
then comes back down to 200 if it goes
up to 20,000 and comes back down to
2,000 you can think that through and if
you have a decent level of
self-knowledge and self-discipline
you can anticipate those problems you
can be wise I think the vast majority of
people with some basic level of
self-awareness can think that through
and can understand how they're gonna
react what you can't anticipate is how
suffering will change
you suffering as such changes your
character it changes who you are down to
the core of your being and you cannot
cannot know who you will become
or how you will change after you go
through a process of suffering suffering
is qualitatively and quantitatively
different when it is observed think
about I mean some of you watching this
would be quite young some of you'll be
fully grown adults think about the worst
trauma you've had in your entire life
the most crushing devastating experience
you've ever had maybe a death maybe you
were the victim of a crime and now think
about how different it would have been
if you had been on YouTube what would
happened in your past
what if that had happened to you on
YouTube or what if even if it wasn't
filmed that the moment had happened what
if just a couple hours after it happened
you'd come on the internet and talked
about your feelings what if there was an
audience you were answering to in
describing that trauma that suffering
that terrible thing it's just that
terrible period of your life you know
maybe it's a subtle difference but it's
profound maybe it's not gonna be that
you go through the worst trauma in the
world you know your parents died or you
lose your job you have a period of
unemployment you have a period when
you're really unhappy and doing job
applications I went through that on
YouTube I you know just to give a
parallelism which is a bit extreme in
Canada we we had a case where a man a
Canadian man went to Saudi Arabia and he
was framed for a crime he didn't commit
he had nothing to do with the crime and
he was tortured formal torture this is
not torturing out he was tortured by a
professional torturer in a prison in
you know in a torture chamber but he
said what broke him was not the torture
what broke him was when they brought in
somebody else somebody he knew at work
colleague and they had him watch
they had him stand there silently and
watched the other person being tortured
and he knew that the other person would
not have to be tortured if he confessed
to the crime that broke him so he put up
with a week or something a physical
torture when it was just him suffering
but when he was in the role of the
observer and when he knew that the other
person was being tortured for him then
he had to make it stop he was broken
immediately and he was ready to confess
to a crime he had nothing to do with
suffering transforms who you are the
observation of suffering changes the
nature of the suffering itself okay and
you may not believe me you may not be
able to imagine this but if you go
through anything negative in your life
it may be caused by YouTube it may be
people harassing you or humiliating you
on the Internet
but it may it may have nothing to do
with the Internet it may be that you
have a trauma because you know your
girlfriend is hit by a car
I mean maybe anything I guarantee you if
you are regularly uploading to YouTube
at the moment it happens you're sitting
there on the [ __ ] sidewalk next to
the corpse of somebody you love watching
the life go out of your eyes on some
level you are thinking how am I going to
explain this on YouTube the fact that
your life is observed the fact that it
will be observed the fact that there is
an audience for whatever it is you're
going through changes your experience
even in the moment and then of course is
gonna change everything after the fact
when you come on the internet and talk
about it and I really think that's
something you most people cannot
anticipate you can't anticipate how
that's gonna change you I'll give you
one other example from literature
Tolstoy wrote a famous book called war
and peace famous author
Tolstoy has a scene with a duel men
fighting a duel to the death with guns
that was quite common during Tolstoy his
life and Tolstoy was involved with some
duels himself he was an author he was an
intellectual but he didn't always
believe in non-violence he got into
something so at that time men would
fight each other to death
with guns over a point of Honor pretty
regularly but I remember he gives this
description of the duel and for me it
really made me think about how cinema
and television have changed the way we
perceive reality and the way we describe
reality because I was reading the
description of this duel and I thought
oh he's gonna describe the image of red
blood on the white snow because it's
Russia with in the winter with snow so
that's what's coming we're gonna have
the image of the shocking sight of red
blood on white snow I'm Canadian if
you're Canadian you've seen blood in the
snow at some point I was just absolutely
anticipating that as I read this it's
it's such an obvious compelling image in
terms of drawing out the you know the
violence and brutality of this but know
at the end of that scene in war and
peace what it cuts to it describes the
two men shooting each other and then
there's the man who's the witness
legally they had to have a witness to
the duel you know the man who stand
there he's the official witness he's
witnessing the duel he's watching the
man die and the only thing he can think
about is how am I gonna explain this to
his mother he knows this man he knows
his mother he knows he's gonna have to
go home and why they're writing a letter
or going and meeting the woman he's
gonna have to describe to this woman how
her son died okay in a very real sense
[Music]
no matter how honest you are or no
matter how artificial you are whether
your approach to social media is highly
theatrical or you are keeping it real as
honest and raw and real as you possibly
can
suffering will change you the fact that
other people are observing your
suffering will change you and the
awareness that you have to go and tell
this story to somebody's mother you know
you're a witness to your own life now
you're a witness to your own tragedy
your own triumphs - but it's not
somebody's mother you've got to go tell
the story - it's your audience and in a
sense it's anybody's mother and
everybody's mother because once it's on
the internet in theory all your
co-workers can see the video your
ex-girlfriend from high school can see
the video that's happened to me recently
one of my first girlfriends from high
school googled my name and watched all
my videos she hadn't talked to me in 20
years all of a sudden she knows all this
stuff from personally I don't mind I'm
cool with that I think that's the side
of the game that you can never fully
understand until you go through it
yourself and there's no way you can
anticipate how it's going to change